## Gas and Gasprice

once the contract is completed it is needed to be deploy in Ethereum. It cost some internal pricing, called Gas. The amount of Gas for running the contract successfully is called Gas or Gas limit. Each unit of Gas costs a certain unit (wei) of Ether called Gasprice, i.e it is the amount of Ether that the user ready to pay for a unit of Gas in order to run the contract. Gas is important because by requiring that a transaction pay for each operation, we ensure that network doesn't become bogged down with performing a lot of intensive work that isn't valuable to anyone. 
Transaction fee is calculated as product of gas used and gas price, and payed as ether.
      If the gas used is less than the gas limit then the remaining gas will be saved but in case the gas limit is less than the required amount then, the miner will stop processing the transaction, revert any changes it made, but still include it in the blockchain as a "failed transaction", collecting the fees for it i.e the gas count as spent.  
      we have to careful while deciding Gas and Gas price. If Gasprice is too low then the transaction will be never included in the blockchain by the miners, if we are offering more than enough Gas price, it will be like spending a lot of ether for few operations. If we attached more ether than was needed to pay for the gas that the transaction consumed, the excess amount will be refunded.
      Gas is the key mechanism that makes the complex computations in Ethereum "safe" for the network to work on, because any programs that run out of control will only last as long as the money provided by the people who requested they be run. When the money stops, the miners stop working on it. And the mistakes you make in your program will only affect the people who pay to use it--the rest of the network can't suffer performance issues due to your error. They will simply get a big payday when the performance issues consume all of your ether! Without this critical technique, the idea of a general-purpose blockchain would have been completely impossible.[1]
 
1. https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/3/what-is-meant-by-the-term-gas/62#62
